Start working on Monitoring feature + Improvements based on the first contact with (#35)
aerogear/unifiedpush-operator: README.adoc

= UnifiedPush Operator

toc::[]

== Overview

The UnifiedPush Operator for Kubernetes provides an easy way to install and manage an https://aerogear.org/docs/unifiedpush/[AeroGear UnifiedPush] Server on OpenShift.

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer: The previous structure of this readme had the installation section here for "users" who wanted to install the operator, and then there was a section later called "Development", for people who wanted to make changes to the project. Which one of those are these "Prerequisites" for? To use the operator the only thing you need from this list is kubectl (and you could even get by without that :wink: )

Author: Hi @grdryn,

I found it very confusing. IMHO the first contact with a product need be really simplified as it is done in other products as well. So, to achieve this goal is easier we suggest the usage of the make commands instead of a big list of commands. 

Also, note that that we were suggesting the usage of `kubectl` too install anyway before. So, it is a Prerequisites. We need to think that the who will have the first contact with may know nothing about this stuff at all and try to make the things as easier as possible.

|===

> |https://golang.org/doc/install[Install Golang]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|https://golang.org/doc/install[Install Go]
```

Author: 👍

|https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH[Ensure the $GOPATH environment variable is set]
|https://golang.github.io/dep/docs/installation.html[Install the dep package manager]
|https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk#quick-start[Install Operator-SDK]
|https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl[Install kubectl]
|===

== Getting Started

=== Cloning the repository

By the following commands you will create a local directory and clone this project.

[source,shell]
----
$ git clone git@github.com:aerogear/unifiedpush-operator.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator
----

=== Minishift installation and setup

> https://docs.okd.io/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html[Install Minishift] then enable Operators on it by running the following commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://docs.okd.io/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html[Install Minishift] then install the operator on it by running the following commands.
```

In my opinion, when it said "enable Operators" it made it sound like "Operators" was some disabled thing that needed to be enabled.

Author: 👍

[source,shell]
----
# create a new profile to test the operator
$ minishift profile set unifiedpush-operator

# enable the admin-user add-on
$ minishift addon enable admin-user

# add insecure registry to download the images from docker
$ minishift config set insecure-registry 172.30.0.0/16

# start the instance
$ minishift start
----

> IMPORTANT: In OpenShift 4 the operators were introduced by default.

Reviewer: This is a confusing statement to me. _What_ operators were introduced by default, and how does that affect this project? Is it more correct to say that the OLM is installed by default? If so, why is _that_ important?

Author: Just to highlight that the above steps are not required outside of minishift (OCP > 4). I will try to improve it. Tks.

=== Installing

> Use the following command to install the unifiedpush-operator in your OpenShift cluster as follows:

Reviewer 2: I saw other places in the readme use `UnifiedPush Operator`, so it might be better to use one or the other to keep the name consistent?

Author: 👍

By the following commands you will create a local directory and clone this project.

[source,shell]
----
$ git clone git@github.com:aerogear/unifiedpush-operator.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator
----

=== Minishift installation and setup

https://docs.okd.io/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html[Install Minishift] then install Operators on it by running the following commands.

[source,shell]
----
# create a new profile to test the operator
$ minishift profile set unifiedpush-operator

# enable the admin-user add-on
$ minishift addon enable admin-user

# add insecure registry to download the images from docker
$ minishift config set insecure-registry 172.30.0.0/16

# start the instance
$ minishift start
----

NOTE: The above steps are not required in OCP > 4 since the OLM and Operators came installed by default.

=== Installing

Use the following command to install the UnifiedPush Operator and Service in your OpenShift cluster as follows:

[source,shell]
----
$ make install
----

NOTE: To install you need be logged in as a user with cluster privileges like the `system:admin` user. E.g. By using: `oc login -u system:admin`.

> === Creating/Binding an app

Reviewer 3: This is not really an "app" in "mobile app". It is better to use "PushApplication" IMO.
And "binding" is not relevant in this operator.

Author: OKs

Author: Done

* Create a link:./deploy/crds/examples/push_v1alpha1_pushapplication_cr.yaml[PushApplication CR] as this example.
+
The app name and description need to be specified into the link:./deploy/crds/examples/push_v1alpha1_pushapplication_cr.yaml[PushApplication CR] as follows.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: push.aerogear.org/v1alpha1
kind: PushApplication
metadata:
  name: example-pushapplication
spec:
  description: 'An example push application to demonstrate the
    unifiedpush-operator'
----
+

> * Run the following command to bind the app to the Push Service

Reviewer 3: Similar to above. I would change it to "... to create a PushApplication".

Author: done

=== Metrics

=== Monitoring Service (Metrics)

The application-monitoring stack provisioned by the

> https://github.com/integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator[application-monitoring-operator] on https://github.com/integr8ly[Integr8ly]

Reviewer: out of curiosity, why is the `{application_monitoring_operator}` link macro not being used here (like it was used in the removed text)?

Author: To impl the monitor we will use it.

> can be used to gather metrics from this operator and the mobile security service. These metrics can be used by Integr8ly's application monitoring to generate Prometheus metrics, AlertManager alerts and a Grafana dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be used to gather metrics from this operator and the UnifiedPush Server. These metrics can be used by Integr8ly's application monitoring to generate Prometheus metrics, AlertManager alerts and a Grafana dashboard.
```

Author: Good catch 👍

It is required that the https://github.com/integr8ly/grafana-operator[integr8ly/Grafana] and https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[Prometheus] operators are installed. For further detail see https://github.com/integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator[integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator].

> The following commands will enable the monitoring service where the operator has been installed in the default namespace with the make commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command enables the monitoring service in the operator namespace:
```
I think that might read a bit better

Author: 👍

=== Metrics
=== Monitoring Service (Metrics)

The application-monitoring stack provisioned by the
{application_monitoring_operator} can be used to gather metrics from
the operator here.  Once you have provisioned that (or the
ServiceMonitor CRD at a minimum), you can run the following commands
to configure it:
{application_monitoring_operator} on https://github.com/integr8ly[Integr8ly]
can be used to gather metrics from this operator and the UnifiedPush Server. These metrics can be used by Integr8ly's application monitoring to generate Prometheus metrics, AlertManager alerts and a Grafana dashboard.

....
kubectl label namespace unifiedpush monitoring-key=middleware
kubectl create -n unifiedpush -f deploy/service_monitor.yaml
....
It is required that the https://github.com/integr8ly/grafana-operator[integr8ly/Grafana] and https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[Prometheus] operators are installed. For further detail see https://github.com/integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator[integr8ly/application-monitoring-operator].

== Custom Resources (aka How to get value from this operator)
The following command enables the monitoring service in the operator namespace:

> === UnifiedPushServer

Reviewer 3: @camilamacedo86 I think the doc for this custom resource is missing.

Author: OK.

Author: done

operator-sdk test cluster $IMAGE --namespace $NAMESPACE --service-account unifiedpush-operator
....

== Makefile command reference

=== Application Commands

|===
| *Command*                        | *Description*
| `make install`                   | Creates the `{namespace}` namespace, application CRDS, cluster role and service account.

> | `make uninstall`                 | Uninstalls the operator and the Service and DB. Deletes the `{namespace}`` namespace, application CRDS, cluster role and service account and the app namespace. i.e. all configuration applied by `make install`

Reviewer 2: I think there's a extra backtick after `{namespace}`
```suggestion
| `make uninstall`                 | Uninstalls the operator and the Service and DB. Deletes the `{namespace}` namespace, application CRDS, cluster role and service account and the app namespace. i.e. all configuration applied by `make install`
```
Extra back tick here and in the other commands too

Author: 👍
